In this demo I'll demonstrate how to configure port mirroring on the VSE fair distributed switch.
So first off the purpose of mirroring is to duplicate the traffic and a distributed port or maybe even
multiple distributed ports and send a copy of it to some sort of destination.
And so I'm going to start out by choosing my Vee's for a distributed switch here.
VCP demo and under the configure menu you can see mirroring and if I click on new here that gives us
the ability to go ahead and create a new port mirroring session.
So the first session type is pretty straightforward.
Here we are mirroring traffic from one set of distributed ports to another set of distributed ports.
So we must be using a virtual machine to actually monitor that traffic.
And then we've got remote mirroring source and remote mirroring destination.
So with a remote mirroring source what we're doing is we're mirroring traffic from a set of distributed
ports to specific physical uplink ports.
This is like in our span session we're going to have something in the physical network.
That is actually going to be receiving that traffic out.
One of the uplinks of my ESX host and monitoring that traffic or if I want to do an hour span session
in reverse I can have remote mirroring destination meaning traffic is coming from a set of virtual lands
and is being received by a distributed port.
We also have encapsulated remote mirroring layer 3 source.
So we're going to take traffic that's going to set up distributed ports and Sandomir or copy of it to
a particular IP address that IP address could be a virtual machine it could be a physical server somewhere.
And so I'm just going to go with the first option here which is called distributed port mirroring and
I'm going to give it a name.
I can choose whether I want to enable or disable it.
At the moment I'm just going to leave it disabled.
And now I can say OK I am mirroring traffic from one port to another on the destination poor.
Is it purely going to be used to receive this traffic or can the machine on the destination port generate
its own traffic.
I'm going to allow it to and that I can adjust the granularity here I can change the sampling rate higher
or lower if I'd like to I'm going to leave it at the defaults.
And then what you can do is choose the source and destination port.
And in order to choose a source port there has to actually be a virtual machine connected to that poor
and power down.
So I'm going to choose this one particular poor as my source port and then I'll choose a different port
which would be probably like some kind of monitoring virtual machine or maybe a sniffer or an intrusion
prevention system or who knows what but something that I want to actually have receive a mirror copy
of all of this traffic on a different port.
And so this is really the most basic kind of port mirroring session that you can set up.
And now all of the traffic that's received on my source port will be automatically mirrored to my destination
port.
So that's how we can figure port mirroring session.
Now a couple of things that I do just want to mention when you're configuring a mirroring session one
of the settings that it kind of zipped past a little bit quickly here was the mirrored packet like.
And you'll notice we have the ability to basically say what does the packet length that we actually
want to duplicate and send a copy of that traffic to.
And so here we see it's 60 bytes is the length that's configured here.
If I choose to do this only the first 60 bytes of each packet is actually going to be mirrored.
I think you will why would I want to do that.
Why wouldn't I just mirror the entire package.
Well most of the time when you're setting up a mirroring session you're not actually trying to capture
all of the data that the source machine is actually sending or receiving.
What you're really trying to do is analyze those packet headers and so you don't necessarily have to
capture the entire packet in order to do that.
So that's the final piece that I just wanted to go back and revisit quickly and explain why you have
the ability to override that mirrored packet length.
Now when you're planning on taking the exam my recommendation would be to be able to briefly describe
each of these different port mirroring session types and understand at a very basic level what each
of these port marrying sessions does.
So be familiar with that before you go and set your VCP exam.